Readme.md, before:

#Inter-Process Communication
##Foreword
This project has two parts, plus an extra-credit portion.  In the first part,
you will convert an implementation of a getfile server into a getfile proxy
that converts incoming Getfile requests into http requests for a server on the
internet.  In the second part, you will implement a simple cache that
communicates with the proxy via shared memory.  For extra credit, you may
integrate the code you wrote from the first two parts with your own code from
Project  so that you have an end-to-end implementation of a getfile proxy with
cache built from your own source code.

##Setup
You can clone the code in this repository with the command
```
git clone --recursive https://github.gatech.edu/omscs8803-02/pr3.git
```

If your version of git does not support the `--recursive` option, you may
instead use the sequence
```
git clone https://github.gatech.edu/omscs8803-02/pr3.git
cd pr3
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

##Submission Instructions
All code should be submitted through the submit.py script given at the top
level of this repository.  For instructions on how to submit individual
components of the assignment see the instructions below.  You may submit as
many times as you like.  Your last submission before the project deadline will
be downloaded by the teaching assistants and graded according to the assignment
rubric.

After submitting, you may double-check the results of your submission by
visiting the [Udacity/GT autograding website](https://bonnie.udacity.com) and
going to the student portal.

##Part 1
To convert the getfile server into a proxy, you only need to replace the part
of the code that retrieves the file from disc with code that retrieves it from
the web.  Using the gfserver library provided in the starter code, this is as
easy as registering a callback.  Documentation can be found in the gfserver.h
file.  To implement the callback you should use the
[libcurl's “easy” C interface](http://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/).

![part1 architecture](docs/part1.png)

Your proxy server must use a boss-worker multi-threading pattern, allowing it
to serve multiple connections at once, and it must support the command line
arguments listed below.

```
usage:
  webproxy [options]
options:
  -p port for incoming requests
  -t number of worker threads
  -s server address(e.g. “localhost:8080”, or “http://example.com”)
```

Note that you don’t have to write your own http server.  Workloads are provided
for files that live on an amazon S3 instance
http://s3.amazonaws.com/content.udacity-data.com.  Concatenate this with one of
the paths found in workload.txt to create a valid url. 
**Note: the grading server will not use the same URL.**
Do not encode this URL into your code or it should fail in the auto-grader.

Here is a summary of the relevant files and their roles.
- Makefile - (do not modify) file used to compile the code.  Run ‘make
	webproxy’ to compile your code.
- gfserver.h - (do not modify) header file for the library that interacts with
	the getfile client.
- gfserver.o - (do not modify) object file for the library that interacts with
	the getfile client.
- handle_with_curl.c - (modify) implement the handle_with_curl function here
	using the libcurl library.  On a 404 from the webserver, this function should
	return a header with a Getfile status of GF_FILE_NOT_FOUND.
- handle_with_file.c - (not submitted) illustrates how to use the gfserver
	library with an example.
- gfclient_download - a binary executable that serves as a workload generator
	for the proxy.  It downloads the requested files, using the current directory
	as a prefix for all paths.
- gfclient_measure - a binary executable that serves as a workload generator
	for the proxy.  It measures the performance of the proxy, writing one entry
	in the metrics file for each chunk of data received.
- webproxy.c - (modify) this is the main file for the webproxy program.  Only
	small modifications are necessary.
- workload.txt - (not submitted) this file contains a list of files that can be
	requested of  http://s3.amazonaws.com/content.udacity-data.com as part of
	your tests.

Once you have completed your programs inside the echo directory, you can submit
it with the command
```
python submit.py proxy_server
```

##Part 2
The objective of this second part of the project is for you to gain experience
with shared memory-based IPC. You will implement a cache process that will run
on the same machine as the proxy and communicate with it via shared memory.

![part2 architecture](docs/part2.png)

For transferring local files efficiently, you are expected to separate the data
channel from the command channel. File content is transferred through the data
channel and transfer command is transferred through the command channel. The
data channel is implemented using shared memory and the command channel is
implemented using other IPC mechanisms, such as message queue.

Because the goal is to give you experience with shared memory IPC and not cache
replacement policy or cache implementations, you will access the contents of
the cache through an API (simplecache.h) that abstracts away most details of
the cache implementation.  Your focus will be on relaying the contents of the
cache to the proxy process by way of shared memory.

You can use either System V or the POSIX API to implement the shared-memory
component and/or other IPC mechanisms (e.g., message queues or semaphores).
Please see the list of reference material.  If it works on the course’s VM,
then it will work in the Udacity build verification test.

The command line interface for the proxy should include two new components: the
number of segments and the size of the segments to be used for the interprocess
communication.  Instead of automatically relaying requests to the http server,
the proxy should query the cache to see if the file is available in local
memory already.  If the file is available there, it should send the cached
version.  In the real world, you would then have the proxy query the server to
obtain the file.  For the Udacity quiz submission, however, **you need only
check the cache**. In other words, you only need to implement client, proxy,
cache, and the communication protocols, depicted in dark colors in the figure.

In the interprocess communication, **the proxy should be responsible for
creating and destroying the shared memory (or message queues)**.  This is good
practice because in a scenario where the cache is connected to more than one
client (or proxy servers in this case) it makes it easier to ensure that

- a non-responsive client doesn’t degrade the performance of the cache
- a malicious client doesn’t corrupt another’s data.

From the cache’s perspective this falls under the “don’t mess with my memory”
adage.

The cache will have to set up some communication mechanism (socket, message
queue, shared memory) by which the proxy can communicate its request along with
the information about the communication mechanism (shared memory name, id,
etc.)  For the purposes of this project, this mechanism does not have to be
robust to misbehaving clients.

Neither the cache daemon nor the proxy should crash if the other process is not
started already.   For instance, if the proxy cannot connect to the IPC
mechanism over which requests are communicated to the cache, then it might
delay for a second and try again.  The test server will start your cache and
in different orders.

It is not polite to terminate a process without cleaning up, so the proxy
process (and perhaps the cache as well depending on your implementation) must
use a signal handler for both SIGTERM (signal for kill) and SIGINT (signal for
Ctrl-C) to first remove all existing IPC objects -- shared memory segments,
semaphores, message queues, or anything else -- and only then terminate.  The
test server will check for cleanup of IPC resources.

The command line interface for the proxy process should be as follows.

```
usage:
  webproxy [options]
options:
  -n number of segments to use in communication with cache.
  -z the size (in bytes) of the segments.
  -p port for incoming requests
  -t number of worker threads
  -s server address(e.g. “localhost:8080”, or “example.com”)
  -h print a help message
```

The command line interface for the cache process should be as follows.

```
usage:
  simplecached [options]
options:
  -t the number of threads running in the process
  -c a filename to be passed to the initialization of the    simplecache library.
  -h print a help message
```

Depending on your implementation, it may be necessary to hard-code something
about how the proxy communicates its requests to the cache (e.g. a port number
or a name of shared memory segment).  This is acceptable for the purpose of the
assignment.

Here is a summary of the relevant files and their roles.

- cached_files - (not submitted) a directory containing files that will be
	stored in the cache.  Use in conjunction with locals.txt.
- gfserver.h - (do not modify) header file for the library that interacts with
	the getfile client.
- gfserver.o - (do not modify) object file for the library that interacts with
	the getfile client.
- handle_with_cache.c - (modify) implement the handle_with_cache function here.
	It should use one of the IPC mechanisms discussed to communicate with the
	simplecached process to obtain the file contents.  You may also need to add
	an initialization function that can be called from webproxy.c
- handle_with_file.c - (not submitted) illustrates how to use the gfserver
	library with an example.
- locals.txt - (not submitted) a file telling the simplecache where to look for
	its contents.
- Makefile - (do not modify) file used to compile the code.  Run ‘make
	webproxy’ to compile your code.
- shm_channel.[ch] - (modify) you may use these files to implement whatever
	protocol for the IPC you decide upon (e.g., use of designated socket-based
	communication, message queue, or shared memory ).
- simplecache.[ch] - (do not modify) these files contain code for a simple,
	static cache.  Use this interface in your simplecached implementation.  See
	the simplecache.h file for further documentation.
- simplecached.c - (modify) this is the main file for the cache daemon process,
	which should receive requests from the proxy and serve up the contents of the
	cache using the simplecache interface. The process should use a boss-worker
	multithreaded pattern, where individual worker threads are responsible for
	handling a single request from the proxy.
- steque.[ch] - (do not modify) you may find this steque (stack and queue) data
	useful in implementing the the cache.  Beware this uses malloc and may not be
	suitable for shared memory.
- gfclient_download - a binary executable that serves as a workload generator
	for the proxy.  It downloads the requested files, using the current directory
	as a prefix for all paths.
- gfclient_measure - a binary executable that serves as a workload generator
	for the proxy.  It measures the performance of the proxy, writing one entry
	in the metrics file for each chunk of data received.
- webproxy.c - (modify) this is the main file for the webproxy program.  Only
	small modifications are necessary.  In addition to setting up the callbacks
	for the gfserver library, you may need to pre-create a pool of shared memory
	descriptors, a queue of free shared memory descriptors, associated
	synchronization variables, etc.
- workload.txt - (not submitted) this file contains a list of files that can be
	requested of  https://s3.amazonaws.com/content.udacity-data.com as part of
	your tests.

Once you have completed your programs inside the echo directory, you can submit
it with the command
```
python submit.py proxy_cache
```

##Extra Credit
Integrate the code you wrote from the first two parts into your source code
from Project 1 to build a complete getfile-to-http proxy server with cache.
Turn into T-square a zip file with all of the source code and a README file
that documents your code and how to compile and run it.

##References
###Relevant Lecture Material
- P3L3 Inter-Process Communication
  - SysV Shared Memory API
  - POSIX Shared Memory API

###Sample Source Code
- [Signal Handling Code Example](http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2012/03/catch-signnals-sample-c-code/)
- [Libcurl Code Example](https://www.hackthissite.org/articles/read/1078)

###Address Sanitizer
Note that address sanitizer is enabled in the test server as well as the
project Makefile.  To fully exploit this, you may need to set further options
for your environment.
- [Google Sanitizer Wiki](https://github.com/google/sanitizers/wiki/AddressSanitizer)
- [Using GDB with Address Sanitizer](https://xstack.exascale-tech.com/wiki/index.php/Debugging_with_AddressSanitizer)

Address Sanitizer is not compatible with valgrind.  If you wish to use valgrind, you
should build a version of your code without Address Sanitizer. In most cases, your
code will be tested with Address Sanitizer enabled.

##Rubric
###Part 1: Sockets (35 points)
####Proxy Server: Sockets
- Correctly send client requests to server via curl
- Correctly send responses back to client using gfserver library

###Part 2: Shared Memory (55 points)
####Proxy Server: Shared Memory
- Creation and use of shared memory segments
- Segment ID communication
- Cache request generation
- Cache response processing
- Synchronization
- Proper clean up of shared memory resources

####Cache: Shared Memory
- Segment ID communication
- Proxy request processing
- Proxy response processing
- Synchronization

####Report (10 points)
- Summary of the project design in README.md
- Any observations or insights

####Extra Credit (+10 points)
- Modify Project 1 to integrate the Project 3 components, and submit via T-square

Commit message:

Add student-readme file.  Change Readme.md to reflect the need to submit that file.

Readme.md, after:

#Inter-Process Communication
##Foreword
This project has two parts, plus an extra-credit portion.  In the first part,
you will convert an implementation of a getfile server into a getfile proxy
that converts incoming Getfile requests into http requests for a server on the
internet.  In the second part, you will implement a simple cache that
communicates with the proxy via shared memory.  For extra credit, you may
integrate the code you wrote from the first two parts with your own code from
Project  so that you have an end-to-end implementation of a getfile proxy with
cache built from your own source code.

##Setup
You can clone the code in this repository with the command
```
git clone --recursive https://github.gatech.edu/omscs8803-02/pr3.git
```

If your version of git does not support the `--recursive` option, you may
instead use the sequence
```
git clone https://github.gatech.edu/omscs8803-02/pr3.git
cd pr3
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

##Submission Instructions
All code should be submitted through the submit.py script given at the top
level of this repository.  For instructions on how to submit individual
components of the assignment see the instructions below.  You may submit as
many times as you like.  Your last submission before the project deadline will
be downloaded by the teaching assistants and graded according to the assignment
rubric.

After submitting, you may double-check the results of your submission by
visiting the [Udacity/GT autograding website](https://bonnie.udacity.com) and
going to the student portal.

##Part 1
To convert the getfile server into a proxy, you only need to replace the part
of the code that retrieves the file from disc with code that retrieves it from
the web.  Using the gfserver library provided in the starter code, this is as
easy as registering a callback.  Documentation can be found in the gfserver.h
file.  To implement the callback you should use the
[libcurl's “easy” C interface](http://curl.haxx.se/libcurl/c/).

![part1 architecture](docs/part1.png)

Your proxy server must use a boss-worker multi-threading pattern, allowing it
to serve multiple connections at once, and it must support the command line
arguments listed below.

```
usage:
  webproxy [options]
options:
  -p port for incoming requests
  -t number of worker threads
  -s server address(e.g. “localhost:8080”, or “http://example.com”)
```

Note that you don’t have to write your own http server.  Workloads are provided
for files that live on an amazon S3 instance
http://s3.amazonaws.com/content.udacity-data.com.  Concatenate this with one of
the paths found in workload.txt to create a valid url. 
**Note: the grading server will not use the same URL.**
Do not encode this URL into your code or it should fail in the auto-grader.

Here is a summary of the relevant files and their roles.
- Makefile - (do not modify) file used to compile the code.  Run ‘make
	webproxy’ to compile your code.
- gfserver.h - (do not modify) header file for the library that interacts with
	the getfile client.
- gfserver.o - (do not modify) object file for the library that interacts with
	the getfile client.
- handle_with_curl.c - (modify) implement the handle_with_curl function here
	using the libcurl library.  On a 404 from the webserver, this function should
	return a header with a Getfile status of GF_FILE_NOT_FOUND.
- handle_with_file.c - (not submitted) illustrates how to use the gfserver
	library with an example.
- gfclient_download - a binary executable that serves as a workload generator
	for the proxy.  It downloads the requested files, using the current directory
	as a prefix for all paths.
- gfclient_measure - a binary executable that serves as a workload generator
	for the proxy.  It measures the performance of the proxy, writing one entry
	in the metrics file for each chunk of data received.
- webproxy.c - (modify) this is the main file for the webproxy program.  Only
	small modifications are necessary.
- workload.txt - (not submitted) this file contains a list of files that can be
	requested of  http://s3.amazonaws.com/content.udacity-data.com as part of
	your tests.

Once you have completed your programs inside the p3 directory, you can submit
it with the command
```
python submit.py proxy_server
```

##Part 2
The objective of this second part of the project is for you to gain experience
with shared memory-based IPC. You will implement a cache process that will run
on the same machine as the proxy and communicate with it via shared memory.

![part2 architecture](docs/part2.png)

For transferring local files efficiently, you are expected to separate the data
channel from the command channel. File content is transferred through the data
channel and transfer command is transferred through the command channel. The
data channel is implemented using shared memory and the command channel is
implemented using other IPC mechanisms, such as message queue.

Because the goal is to give you experience with shared memory IPC and not cache
replacement policy or cache implementations, you will access the contents of
the cache through an API (simplecache.h) that abstracts away most details of
the cache implementation.  Your focus will be on relaying the contents of the
cache to the proxy process by way of shared memory.

You can use either System V or the POSIX API to implement the shared-memory
component and/or other IPC mechanisms (e.g., message queues or semaphores).
Please see the list of reference material.  If it works on the course’s VM,
then it will work in the Udacity build verification test.

The command line interface for the proxy should include two new components: the
number of segments and the size of the segments to be used for the interprocess
communication.  Instead of automatically relaying requests to the http server,
the proxy should query the cache to see if the file is available in local
memory already.  If the file is available there, it should send the cached
version.  In the real world, you would then have the proxy query the server to
obtain the file.  For the Udacity quiz submission, however, **you need only
check the cache**. In other words, you only need to implement client, proxy,
cache, and the communication protocols, depicted in dark colors in the figure.

In the interprocess communication, **the proxy should be responsible for
creating and destroying the shared memory (or message queues)**.  This is good
practice because in a scenario where the cache is connected to more than one
client (or proxy servers in this case) it makes it easier to ensure that

- a non-responsive client doesn’t degrade the performance of the cache
- a malicious client doesn’t corrupt another’s data.

From the cache’s perspective this falls under the “don’t mess with my memory”
adage.

The cache will have to set up some communication mechanism (socket, message
queue, shared memory) by which the proxy can communicate its request along with
the information about the communication mechanism (shared memory name, id,
etc.)  For the purposes of this project, this mechanism does not have to be
robust to misbehaving clients.

Neither the cache daemon nor the proxy should crash if the other process is not
started already.   For instance, if the proxy cannot connect to the IPC
mechanism over which requests are communicated to the cache, then it might
delay for a second and try again.  The test server will start your cache and
in different orders.

It is not polite to terminate a process without cleaning up, so the proxy
process (and perhaps the cache as well depending on your implementation) must
use a signal handler for both SIGTERM (signal for kill) and SIGINT (signal for
Ctrl-C) to first remove all existing IPC objects -- shared memory segments,
semaphores, message queues, or anything else -- and only then terminate.  The
test server will check for cleanup of IPC resources.

The command line interface for the proxy process should be as follows.

```
usage:
  webproxy [options]
options:
  -n number of segments to use in communication with cache.
  -z the size (in bytes) of the segments.
  -p port for incoming requests
  -t number of worker threads
  -s server address(e.g. “localhost:8080”, or “example.com”)
  -h print a help message
```

The command line interface for the cache process should be as follows.

```
usage:
  simplecached [options]
options:
  -t the number of threads running in the process
  -c a filename to be passed to the initialization of the    simplecache library.
  -h print a help message
```

Depending on your implementation, it may be necessary to hard-code something
about how the proxy communicates its requests to the cache (e.g. a port number
or a name of shared memory segment).  This is acceptable for the purpose of the
assignment.

Here is a summary of the relevant files and their roles.

- cached_files - (not submitted) a directory containing files that will be
	stored in the cache.  Use in conjunction with locals.txt.
- gfserver.h - (do not modify) header file for the library that interacts with
	the getfile client.
- gfserver.o - (do not modify) object file for the library that interacts with
	the getfile client.
- handle_with_cache.c - (modify) implement the handle_with_cache function here.
	It should use one of the IPC mechanisms discussed to communicate with the
	simplecached process to obtain the file contents.  You may also need to add
	an initialization function that can be called from webproxy.c
- handle_with_file.c - (not submitted) illustrates how to use the gfserver
	library with an example.
- locals.txt - (not submitted) a file telling the simplecache where to look for
	its contents.
- Makefile - (do not modify) file used to compile the code.  Run ‘make
	webproxy’ to compile your code.
- shm_channel.[ch] - (modify) you may use these files to implement whatever
	protocol for the IPC you decide upon (e.g., use of designated socket-based
	communication, message queue, or shared memory ).
- simplecache.[ch] - (do not modify) these files contain code for a simple,
	static cache.  Use this interface in your simplecached implementation.  See
	the simplecache.h file for further documentation.
- simplecached.c - (modify) this is the main file for the cache daemon process,
	which should receive requests from the proxy and serve up the contents of the
	cache using the simplecache interface. The process should use a boss-worker
	multithreaded pattern, where individual worker threads are responsible for
	handling a single request from the proxy.
- steque.[ch] - (do not modify) you may find this steque (stack and queue) data
	useful in implementing the the cache.  Beware this uses malloc and may not be
	suitable for shared memory.
- gfclient_download - a binary executable that serves as a workload generator
	for the proxy.  It downloads the requested files, using the current directory
	as a prefix for all paths.
- gfclient_measure - a binary executable that serves as a workload generator
	for the proxy.  It measures the performance of the proxy, writing one entry
	in the metrics file for each chunk of data received.
- webproxy.c - (modify) this is the main file for the webproxy program.  Only
	small modifications are necessary.  In addition to setting up the callbacks
	for the gfserver library, you may need to pre-create a pool of shared memory
	descriptors, a queue of free shared memory descriptors, associated
	synchronization variables, etc.
- workload.txt - (not submitted) this file contains a list of files that can be
	requested of  https://s3.amazonaws.com/content.udacity-data.com as part of
	your tests.

Once you have completed your programs inside the p3 directory, you can submit
it with the command
```
python submit.py proxy_cache
```

##README File
Do not forget to include your student-readme file.  It will be automatically uploaded
with your submission when you submit either project but must be named **student-readme**

##Extra Credit
Integrate the code you wrote from the first two parts into your source code
from Project 1 to build a complete getfile-to-http proxy server with cache.
Turn into T-square a zip file with all of the source code and a README file
that documents your code and how to compile and run it.

##References
###Relevant Lecture Material
- P3L3 Inter-Process Communication
  - SysV Shared Memory API
  - POSIX Shared Memory API

###Sample Source Code
- [Signal Handling Code Example](http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2012/03/catch-signnals-sample-c-code/)
- [Libcurl Code Example](https://www.hackthissite.org/articles/read/1078)

###Address Sanitizer
Note that address sanitizer is enabled in the test server as well as the
project Makefile.  To fully exploit this, you may need to set further options
for your environment.
- [Google Sanitizer Wiki](https://github.com/google/sanitizers/wiki/AddressSanitizer)
- [Using GDB with Address Sanitizer](https://xstack.exascale-tech.com/wiki/index.php/Debugging_with_AddressSanitizer)

Address Sanitizer is not compatible with valgrind.  If you wish to use valgrind, you
should build a version of your code without Address Sanitizer. In most cases, your
code will be tested with Address Sanitizer enabled.

##Rubric
###Part 1: Sockets (35 points)
####Proxy Server: Sockets
- Correctly send client requests to server via curl
- Correctly send responses back to client using gfserver library

###Part 2: Shared Memory (55 points)
####Proxy Server: Shared Memory
- Creation and use of shared memory segments
- Segment ID communication
- Cache request generation
- Cache response processing
- Synchronization
- Proper clean up of shared memory resources

####Cache: Shared Memory
- Segment ID communication
- Proxy request processing
- Proxy response processing
- Synchronization

####Report (10 points)
- Summary of the project design in README.md
- Any observations or insights

####Extra Credit (+10 points)
- Modify Project 1 to integrate the Project 3 components, and submit via T-square
